Create statsmodels entry for Python (#5670)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/statsmodels/statsmodels.md

---
Title: 'Statsmodels'

> Description: 'The statsmodels library is used to estimate statistical models and perform statistical tests in Python.' 

Reviewer: We should rephrase it just a little to make it clearer and easier to understand.

```suggestion
Description: 'The statsmodels library is used to estimate the statistical models and perform statistical tests.' 
```

Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'

>   - 'Statistics'

Reviewer: `Statistics` is not a valid subject. Please refer to the list of subjects in [subjects.md](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md).

```suggestion
  - 'Data Visualization'
  - 'Computer Science'
```

Tags:
  - 'Python'
  - 'Statistics'

>   - 'Statsmodels'

Reviewer: `Statsmodels` is not a valig tag. Please refer to the list of tags in [tags.md](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md).

```suggestion
  - 'Data'
  - 'Models'
  - 'Datasets'
  - 'Machine Learning'
```

CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

> In Python, the `statsmodels` library is used to estimate the statistical models, and perform statistical tests. It is built on top of `numpy`, `scipy`, and `pandas`. It provides classes and functions for the estimation of many different statistical models, as well as for conducting statistical tests, and statistical data exploration.

Reviewer: The last sentence is just repeating what the first sentence already states. We can remove it.

```suggestion
In Python, the `statsmodels` library is used to estimate the statistical models and perform statistical tests. It is built on top of `numpy`, `scipy`, and `pandas`. 
```

> The same is widely used in the field of econometrics, and it is also used in other fields such as finance, marketing, and social sciences. It is a powerful tool for statistical analysis, and it provides a wide range of statistical models and tests.

Reviewer: This sentence can be simplified as follows, avoiding repetition - 

```suggestion
It is widely used in econometrics and other fields such as finance, marketing, and social sciences.
```

> It provides classes and functions for the estimation of many different statistical models, such as linear regression, generalized linear models, time series analysis, and more. It also provides functions for conducting statistical tests, such as hypothesis tests, and for statistical data exploration.

Reviewer: Again, this mostly repeats what we have already told the learner. We can simplify this as - 

```suggestion
It supports various models, including linear regression, generalized linear models, time series analysis, and more.
```

## Key Features

> - `Estimation of statistical models`: provides classes and functions for the estimation of many different statistical models, such as linear regression, generalized linear models, time series analysis, and more.
> 
> - `Statistical tests`: provides functions for conducting statistical tests, such as hypothesis tests, and for statistical data exploration.
> 
> - `Data exploration`: provides functions for exploring and analyzing data, such as summary statistics, correlation analysis, and more.
> 
> - `Visualization`: provides functions for visualizing data, such as scatter plots, histograms, and more.
> 
> - `Integration with other libraries`: built on top of `numpy`, `scipy`, and `pandas`, and it integrates well with other libraries in the Python ecosystem.

Reviewer: Since the list headers are new terms and do not contain coding methods or functions, we can highlight them in bold rather than backticks. Also, the list sentences should begin with capital letters.

```suggestion
- **Estimation of statistical models**: Provides classes and functions for estimating many different statistical models, such as linear regression, generalized linear models, time series analysis, and more.

- **Statistical tests**: Provides functions for conducting statistical tests, such as hypothesis tests.
- **Data exploration**: Provides functions for exploring and analyzing data, such as summary statistics, correlation analysis, and more.

- **Visualization**: Provides functions for visualizing data, such as scatter plots, histograms, and more.

- **Integration with other libraries**: Built on top of `numpy`, `scipy`, and `pandas`, it integrates well with other libraries in the Python ecosystem.
```

## Installation

> You can install the `statsmodels` library using `pip` by running the following recommended command:

Reviewer: As per the codeacademy [style guide](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/style-guide.md), we should avoid using first and second-person pronouns, i.e. "I", "we", and "you".

```suggestion
The `statsmodels` library can be installed using pip by running the following command:
```

```shell
pip install statsmodels
```

## Usage

> To use the `statsmodels` library in your Python code, you need to import the necessary modules and classes. 

Reviewer: As per the codeacademy [style guide](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/style-guide.md), we should avoid using first and second-person pronouns, i.e. "I", "we", and "you".

```suggestion
To use the `statsmodels` library in Python code, import the necessary modules and classes.
```

## Examples

Here are some examples of how to use the `statsmodels` library to estimate statistical models, perform statistical tests, and explore data.

### Linear Regression

```py
import numpy as np
import statsmodels.api as sm

# Generate some random data
np.random.seed(0)
X = np.random.rand(100, 1)
y = 2 + 3 * X + np.random.randn(100, 1)

# Fit the linear regression model
X = sm.add_constant(X)
model = sm.OLS(y, X)
results = model.fit()

# Print the summary of the model
print(results.summary())

> ```

Reviewer: Add a small explanation as well as the output for the code example to make it easy for the learner to understand.

### Analysis of Variance (ANOVA)

```py
import numpy as np
import statsmodels.api as sm
import statsmodels.formula.api as smf

# Generate some random data
np.random.seed(0)
data = {'A': np.random.randint(0, 2, 100),
        'B': np.random.randint(0, 2, 100),
        'C': np.random.randint(0, 2, 100)}
df = pd.DataFrame(data)

# Fit the ANOVA model
model = smf.ols('A ~ B + C', data=df)
results = model.fit()

# Print the summary of the model
print(results.summary())

> ```

Reviewer: Add a small explanation as well as the output for the code example to make it easy for learner to understand.

### Time Series Analysis

```py
import numpy as np
import statsmodels.api as sm
import statsmodels.tsa.api as tsa

# Generate some random time series data
np.random.seed(0)
data = np.random

# Fit the ARIMA model
model = tsa.ARIMA(data, order=(1, 1, 1))
results = model.fit()

# Print the summary of the model
print(results.summary())

> ```

Reviewer: Add a small explanation as well as the output for the code example to make it easy for learner to understand.

### Hypothesis Testing

```py
import numpy as np
import statsmodels.api as sm
import statsmodels.stats.api as sms

# Generate some random data
np.random.seed(0)
X = np.random.rand(100, 1)
y = 2 + 3 * X + np.random.randn(100, 1)

# Fit the linear regression model
X = sm.add_constant(X)
model = sm.OLS(y, X)
results = model.fit()

# Perform the hypothesis test
t_test = results.t_test([0, 1])
print(t_test)

> ```

Reviewer: Add a small explanation as well as the output for the code example to make it easy for learner to understand.

### Heatmap

```py
import numpy as np
import statsmodels.api as sm
import statsmodels.graphics.api as smg

# Generate some random data
np.random.seed(0)
X = np.random.rand(10, 10)

# Plot the heatmap
smg.plot_heatmap(X)

> ```

Reviewer: Add a small explanation as well as the output for the code example to make it easy for learner to understand.
